New Doc Mobile SSO (#7235)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/appstore/modules/mobile-sso.md

### 1.1 Typical Usage Scenarios

* **B2E app:** Your app is aimed at your company’s employees, and you want these employees to sign in to your app using corporate credentials hosted by your identity provider (IdP) that supports the OIDC protocol. In this case, your app may have its own logic to assign user roles, or you may use authorization information from your IdP as provided to your app using an access token.
* **B2C app:** Your app is aimed at your customers, which could be consumers or employees of the other companies. Consumers may have an identity at a social IdP which uses OIDC, such as Google. 

### 1.2 Features and Limitations

#### 1.2.1 Features

The Mobile SSO module has the following features:

* Supports [native mobile apps](/refguide/mobile/introduction-to-mobile-technologies/native-mobile/)
* User role assignment from your IdP
    
#### 1.2.2 Limitations

The Mobile SSO module has the following limitations:

* Mendix sessions in the mobile app do not time out
* Does not support local sign out
* Mobile SSO module does not support any other protocol except OIDC.
* Mendix has not pen-tested the Mobile SSO module yet

> * Does not support Progressive web app (PWA). If you are building a progressive web app, you need to use the OIDC SSO module instead.

Reviewer: I poreviously left a comment to not mark this as alimitation. See suggestion in 
https://mendix.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/idx/pages/2619899940/Mobile+SSO+draft+product+documentation

Author: @JaapF  what about adding this info in the introduction section instead of feature?? This sentence is something about what we can’t do with the mobile SSO.  It looks odd to add it in the ‘Features’ section. I can add it after architecture diagram. What do you think?

* It doesn't support IdPs that lack Custom Callback URLs, such as Facebook.
* Private use URI Schemes as per [RFC8252, section 7.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8252#section-7.1) are not used.

> #### 1.2.3 Adherence

Reviewer: I suggest calling this "Adherence to OAuth / OpenID Connect protocol specifications"

Those specs consist of multiple RFCs. At this moment we refer only to RFC8251, but this may change in the future.

Author: @JaapF , we mentioned in the section that we refer to RFC8252, not RFC8251. Did I mention it wrong?

---
title: "Mobile SSO"
url: /appstore/modules/mobile-sso/ 
category: "Modules"
description: "Describes the configuration and usage of the Mobile SSO module, which is available in the Mendix Marketplace."
tags: ["marketplace", "marketplace component", "Mobile SSO", "IdP", "single sign on", "platform support", "Azure","Okta"]
#If moving or renaming this doc file, implement a temporary redirect and let the respective team know they should update the URL in the product. See Mapping to Products for more details.
# Linked from 
---

## 1 Introduction

> The Mobile SSO module allows end-users of your mobile Mendix app to sign in via Single Sign-On (SSO) using the OpenID Connect (OIDC) protocol. As the Mobile SSO module depends on the [OIDC SSO module](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/120371), your IdP needs to support the OIDC protocol.

Reviewer 2: OIDC is mentioned a lot here. I know we want to emphasize that it is only OIDC, but perhaps the second sentence could be rewritten to only mention OIDC once.

Author: resolved in this commit: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/8218c37b934156bb42351a36b045b5b7965bc240

The following diagram gives an overview of architecture of the module:

> {{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/architecture.png" max-width=80% class="image-border">}}

Reviewer 2: Nice diagram, but could some of the white space be removed (and some of the blue box) as it is just too small for me to read unless I make the page full-screen.

Author: fixed the image issue in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/c043a1d555f7381ed0797183a4fd2ee7cf456f7e

### 1.1 Typical Usage Scenarios

* **B2E app:** Your app is aimed at your company’s employees, and you want these employees to sign in to your app using corporate credentials hosted by your identity provider (IdP) that supports the OIDC protocol. In this case, your app may have its own logic to assign user roles, or you may use authorization information from your IdP as provided to your app using an access token.
* **B2C app:** Your app is aimed at your customers, which could be consumers or employees of the other companies. Consumers may have an identity at a social IdP which uses OIDC, such as Google. 

### 1.2 Features and Limitations

#### 1.2.1 Features

The Mobile SSO module has the following features:

* Supports [native mobile apps](/refguide/mobile/introduction-to-mobile-technologies/native-mobile/)

> * Supports the assignment of user roles from your IdP

Reviewer 2: Can this be rewritten to get rid of "Supports" at the beginning of each line?

Author: resolved in this commit: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/8218c37b934156bb42351a36b045b5b7965bc240

    
#### 1.2.2 Limitations

The Mobile SSO module has the following limitations:

* Mendix sessions in the mobile app do not time out

> * Does not support local sign out

Reviewer 2: I think I need more explanation because section 4.5 is all about signing out.

I think this needs an "It" – "It does not support…"?

Reviewer: @Karuna-Mendix , we clarified this morning that we DO support local signout.
That needs to be added to section 1.2.1 and removed here.

Additionally Phani would test/clarify Single LogOff, which involves logging off at the IDP. That may lead to additional text to be added. Let's wait and see.

> * Mobile SSO module cannot be used with IdPs that support only the [SAML](/appstore/modules/saml/) protocol

Reviewer 2: Better to say it doesn't support anything except OIDC?

Author: Fixed in the commit: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

> * Mendix has not pen-tested the Mobile SSO module yet

Reviewer 2: Is it still in beta?
It seems odd to release such a module without it being pen tested - unless it is still in beta

Reviewer: As per my email: remove.

By the way, we do release modules without being pen-tested.
Frank advised to not mention it and i agree

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/c043a1d555f7381ed0797183a4fd2ee7cf456f7e done

> * Does not support Progressive web app (PWA). If you are building a progressive web app, you need to use OIDC SSO module instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Does not support Progressive web app (PWA). If you are building a progressive web app, you need to use the OIDC SSO module instead.
```

Author: Fixed in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

> * It doesn't support IdPs that lack Custom Callback URLs, such as Google

Reviewer 2: We mentioned that Google is a B2C use case - perhaps we should choose a different example if we don't support Google.

Author: Changed the example in the limitation - https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

> * Private use URI Scheme’s as per [RFC8252, section 7.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8252#section-7.1) is not used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Private use URI Schemes as per [RFC8252, section 7.1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8252#section-7.1) are not used.
```

Author: Fixed in the commit - https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

#### 1.2.3 Adherence

> This section clarifies to what extend a Mobile Mendix app using Mobile SSO module adheres to best practices for mobile SSO as per [RFC 8252](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8252.txt):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section clarifies to what extent a Mobile Mendix app using Mobile SSO module adheres to best practices for mobile SSO as per [RFC 8252](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8252.txt):
```

Author: fixed in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

It requires the following Marketplace modules to be included in your app:

* [OIDC SSO](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/120371)
* [Native Mobile Resources](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/109513)

## 3 Installation

This guide provides the step-by-step process of integrating the Mobile Single Sign-On (SSO) module into your Mendix Studio Pro application. 

1. Add the Mobile SSO module to your app.
2. Add the necessary dependencies listed above from the Marketplace, if they are not already included in your app.
3. Follow the [OIDC SSO](/appstore/modules/oidc/) documentation to configure the app security settings for the [OIDC SSO](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/120371) module. 

    {{% alert color="info" %}} From an IdP perspective, Mendix mobile apps behave as single page web apps (SPA), so specific instructions for desktop or mobile apps do not apply. {{% /alert %}}

4. Ensure that you have allocated the following user roles to the Mobile SSO module roles:

    | **User Role** | **Mobile SSO Module Role** |
    | --- | --- |
    | Anonymous | MobileSSO.Anonymous |
    | User| MobileSSO.User |

## 4 Configuration

> This section shows you how to configure your app to use OIDC for SSO.

Reviewer 2: Isn't it Mobile SSO that we are now configuring?

Author: fixed in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

### 4.1 Configuration Settings

Refer to the [OIDC SSO](/appstore/modules/oidc/) documentation for the configuration settings of the [OIDC SSO](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/120371) module and ensure the **OIDC_Client_Overview** page is appropriately set up.

> As the Mobile SSO module supports the OIDC SSO features, follow the [OIDC SSO](/appstore/modules/oidc/) documentation for the configuration.

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove this as we have said it on the previous line?

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

> {{% alert color="warning" %}} Configure the IdP in the web application (web page of OIDC SSO using **OIDC_Client_Overview** ) {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer 2: info rather than warning?
```suggestion
{{% alert color="info" %}} Configure the IdP in the web application (web page of OIDC SSO using **OIDC_Client_Overview** ).{{% /alert %}}
```

Author: fixed in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

### 4.2 Configuring Navigation

In the **Native mobile (tablet & phone)** tab, configure the **Role-based home pages**. To do this, add the **Anonymous** role and set the target with the following options: 

* Use `MobileSSO.Login_Native` when you do not want to automatically redirect to the Identity Provider (IdP) login page, especially when only one IdP is configured. This option allows end-users to sign in directly without redirection. 
* Use `MobileSSO.Login_Native_Automatic` if you want end-users to redirect automatically to the IdP sign in page when only one IdP is configured. 

{{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/configuring navigation.png" >}}

### 4.3 Configuring Custom Login Page

If you want to customize the login page, make sure to add the **App events** widget in the page and call the `MobileSSO.OL_RegisterDeeplink` nanoflow. This step helps to integrate the custom login page with Mobile SSO module. 

{{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/Custom login.png" >}}

### 4.4 Configuring Client Information {#client-info}

> Follow the [General OIDC Providers](https://docs.mendix.com/appstore/modules/oidc/#511-general-oidc-providers) section of the ***OIDC SSO*** documentation for configuring client information.

Reviewer 2: You need to add an explicit link in the oidc document so that the link doesn't include the section numbering (5.1.1) as this might change.
The link should also be relative (`/appstore/modules…`) and not have doc.mendix.com as part of it.

Author: I have added the relative link now. However, the section link contains the numbering in the link itself. @MarkvanMents, is there any option available to avoid the numbering? This section is of another document, not from the same one. Otherwise, I could have used the anchor.  https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

{{% alert color="info" %}} Make sure to add a **Custom callback URL** in the client and IdP. This configuration is optional for web apps but mandatory for mobile apps. For Example, `<appname>://oauth/callback`, where <appname> is an application name which is used to create the application using **Build Native Mobile App** {{% /alert %}}

{{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/Configure client information.png" >}}

> In the developer mode or local system application, add the `makeitnative://oauth/callback` URL in the **Custom callback URL** tab. This configuration also supports signing in with acr_values.

Reviewer 2: You mean "when testing locally"? I think this could do with being a bit clearer, and perhaps a link to https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/configuration/

Author: fixed in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

Author: confirmed with Harshita that this link of 'Configuration' is not relevant.

### 4.5 Single Log Out

A standard sign out action will end an end-user’s Mendix session, but it will not end their SSO session. To perform a single sign out, also known as Single Logout (SLO), use the nanoflow `ACT_NativeLogout`. This nanoflow redirects end-user to the end session endpoint of the IdP if it is configured. To do this, add a menu item or button to call the nanoflow `ACT_NativeLogout`.

### 4.6 Building Native Mobile App {#build-native}

When you are building the native mobile app using **Build Native Mobile App** option, make sure to follow the steps below:

1. Turn on **Deep Link**.
1. After turning on the **Deep Link**, add the same appname from `<appname>://oauth/callback` to the **App Scheme**. For more information, see the [Configuring Client Information](#client-info) section above.

{{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/Deeplink.png" max-width=80% class="image-border">}}

### 4.7 Configuring IdP

> The following subsections show how to configure IdP for Azure AD and Okta:

Reviewer 2: "how to configure _your Entra ID or Okta IdP_"

Author: fixed in the commit https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

> #### 4.7.1 Configuring IdP for Azure AD

Reviewer 2: Entra ID

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

> 1. On [Microsoft Entra ID](https://portal.azure.com/#home) portal, select **App Registrations**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On the [Microsoft Entra ID](https://portal.azure.com/#home) portal, select **App Registrations**.
```

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

1. Click **New registration**, provide required information, and click **Register**.
1. In the **Authentication** tab, select **No** to disable the option to **Allow public client flows** as this module only supports confidential client flows.

    {{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/Public client flows.png" max-width=80% class="image-border">}}

> 1. Go to the **Manifest** of the application and add following JSON representations to it:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to the **Manifest** of the application and add the following JSON representations to it:
```

Do we need to point the customer to the Manifest? I'm not sure I would know where to find it.

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

    1. For the application that has been deployed using **Build Native Mobile App**

        ```
        "replyUrlsWithType": [
         {
            "type": "Web",
            "url": "<appname>://oauth/callback"
         }
        ],
        ```

>         {{% alert color="info" %}} Use the same <appname> which you used in the **Custom callback URL** tab of the configuration and while building the application using **Build Native Mobile App**. For more information, see the [Configuring Client Information](#client-info) and [Building Native Mobile App](#build-native) sections above. {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer 2: `<appname>` is hidden as Markdown thinks it is an HTML tag. You can either use _{appname}_ as a different convention, or format it as code
```suggestion
        {{% alert color="info" %}} Use the same `<appname>` which you used in the **Custom callback URL** tab of the configuration and while building the application using **Build Native Mobile App**. For more information, see the [Configuring Client Information](#client-info) and [Building Native Mobile App](#build-native) sections above. {{% /alert %}}
```

Author: resolved in this commit: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/8218c37b934156bb42351a36b045b5b7965bc240

        {{< figure src="/attachments/appstore/modules/mobile-sso/Manifest.png" max-width=80% class="image-border">}}

>     2. For local testing, use below JSON representation to the **Manifest** of the application:

Reviewer 2: This feels a bit awkward. I would probably say something like
```suggestion
    2. For local testing, use the JSON below in the **Manifest** of the application:
```

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

        ```
        {
            "url": "<https://<IP_address>>/oauth/v2/callback",
            "type": "Web"
        },
        {
            "url": "makeitnative://oauth/callback",
            "type": "Web"
        }
        ```

        {{% alert color="info" %}} Make sure to add `makeitnative://oauth/callback` to the **Custom callback URL** tab of the configuration. For more information, see the [Configuring Client Information](#client-info) section above. {{% /alert %}}

1. Save the **Manifest** file.

> 1. In the Azure AD, click **Certificates & secrets** tab of the application and create **New client secret**. You can use this **Value** in the **Client Secret** field on the **OIDC_Client_Overview** page of the OIDC SSO module.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In Entra ID, click the **Certificates & secrets** tab of the application and create a **New client secret**. You can use this **Value** in the **Client Secret** field on the **OIDC_Client_Overview** page of the OIDC SSO module.
```

Author: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/7017884ff40e8bb471a22584494b4a62b6533657

1. Click **Overview** tab of the application and copy **Application (client) ID**. Use this copied value in the **Client ID** field on the **OIDC_Client_Overview** page of the OIDC SSO module.
1. Import the configuration in the page and add the required scopes such as, `openid`, `profile`, and `email`.

> 1. Save the configuration and you can login into the application using Azure SSO.

Reviewer 2: Entra

Author: resolved in this commit: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/8218c37b934156bb42351a36b045b5b7965bc240

#### 4.7.2 Configuring IdP for Okta

> 1. Go to the [Okta](https://dev-5541262-admin.okta.com/admin/apps/active) and click **Create a new app integration**.

Reviewer 2: The Okta console, portal?

Author: resolved in this commit: https://github.com/mendix/docs/pull/7235/commits/8218c37b934156bb42351a36b045b5b7965bc240
